[MUSIC PLAYING]
Chrome 49 adds support
for CSS custom properties,
sometimes referred
to as CSS variables.
Background sync makes it
easy to reliably send data
to the server, even if
the user leaves the page,
closes the browser, or loses
their network connection.
And the new save data
client hint header
enables you to deliver
fast and light applications
to users who want them.
These are just some
of the new features
for developers in Chrome 49.
Let's dive in and see
what's new in Chrome.
Every site has CSS files filled
with repeated values-- colors,
margins, padding, et cetera.
Repeating these values over
and over again in your CSS
is not only a chore, but
it's also error prone.
If, at some point, one of those
values needs to be changed,
your best option is
probably to find and replace
all the things.
But on a project that's large
enough, this is dangerous.
Chrome now supports CSS custom
properties, sometimes referred
to as CSS variables,
allowing you
to define property values in
the CSS without a preprocessor.
Once defined, you can
use the var function
to reference these custom
properties anywhere
in the document.
One of the more powerful
features of custom properties
is the ability to define or
change them wherever you want.
For example, you could define
a variable in a media query,
or use JavaScript to change it.
You simply can't do that
with a preprocessor.
While CSS custom properties
just landed in Chrome 49,
it's already available
in Firefox 42,
Safari 9.1, iOS Safari 9.3.
So check it out.
One of the cool features
of service workers
is the ability to cache pages,
ensuring that your page loads
fast, even on slow or
nonexistent networks.
But what about the case where
you need to send something
to the server?
In the past, we'd
probably use on
before unload to prevent the
user from leaving the page
before we finished the send.
And if there was no network
connection, hopefully
we'd fail gracefully.
But graceful is hard.
The new background sync API
improves network reliability
by allowing service
workers to schedule
a one-off sync of the
user's local changes
when the device next
connects to the network,
even if the page isn't open.
To use background sync, we need
to add a sync event listener
to our service worker
that calls a sync method.
Our sync method should
then return a promise
indicating success or failure.
If it fulfills, the
sync is complete.
But if it fails,
the browser will
try again later until it
successfully sends the data.
Then, to request a sync,
we grab the service workers
registration in our
app and request a sync.
Check out this article
for more details,
and try out [? Emojoy, ?] a
simple emoji-only chat thing.
Every day, hundreds
of millions of users
rely on proxy browsers and
various transcoding services
to access the web and reduce
their bandwidth, enabling
a faster browser experience.
But the popularity of proxy
browsers and transcoding
services is an indicator that
we are ignoring the high user
demand for fast and light
applications and pages.
The new save data client
hint request header,
available in Chrome,
Opera, and Yandex browsers,
enables us to deliver fast
and light applications
to users who have opted
in to data savings
mode in their browser.
By identifying this
request header,
your app should respond
with a lighter version.
For example, reduce the
number of image bytes
sent by sending fewer images,
or using higher compression
ratios.
Or, switch to on-demand
loading of expensive content.
These are just a few of the
new features in Chrome 49
for developers.
Be sure to check out
the description below
to get links to more
details, and learn about some
of the other new features.
If
You haven't already, subscribe
to our Chrome Developers
YouTube channel to stay up
to date with the latest news.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 50 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]